Decentralized application that runs on Peer2Peer network
It runs on every node of the network .
It runs on every particular node which is a part of the etherium network.
whereras Centralized application that runs on one single main network.

Decentralized networks has two component that makes a 
decentralized application. 
smart contract + Front End == Dapps
distributy immutablity and ledger
Trustworthy
No cenorship
They pay
can never go down

Decentralize autonomous organization
Heirarchy of different smart contracts
Full democratized
Voting required
No trusted intermediary to count vote
services offered are handled automaticlaly
all acitivity is transparent and fully public


20.07.2016--> Hard Fork
47678 bitcoin soft fork sigbit adopt 1mb to size 8mb bitcoin cash
presearch
LBRY
D.tube


solana core cousrse
-------
send transaction passed to rpc
RPC Remote proedure call
Devnet Testnet Mainnet-beta send to the solana blockchain state

reading data from blockchain---
Starting with the Solana Alphabet, we have A for accounts. We're starting with accounts because smart contracts on Solana, referred to as "programs", are stateless - meaning they don't store anything except code. Everything happens in accounts so they're central to Solana, they're used for storage, contracts, and for native blockchain programs.

Data accounts - these store data lol
Program accounts - these store executable programs (AKA smart contracts)
Native accounts - these are for core blockchain functions like Stake, Vote

Within data accounts, you have two further types -
System owned accounts
PDA (Program Derived Address) accounts

Lamports are the smallest unit of Solana. If you're familiar with Ethereum ecosystem this is sorta like Gwei. One lamport = 0.000000001 SOL, so this field just tells us how much SOL the account has.

Each account has a public key - it acts like an address for the account. Ya know how your wallet has an address that you use for receiving those spicy NFTs? Same thing! Solana addresses are just base58 encoded strings.

executable is a boolean field that tells us if the account contains executable data. Data is what's stored in the account, and rent we'll cover later!
